

<!DOCTYPE html>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/header.css"/>

<html>
<head>
  <title>Selenium Blog</title>
  <link rel="icon" href="/favicon.ico" type="image/png">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1">
</head>

<header id="header" class="header">
    <a href="https://selenium.dev" class="headerLink">
      <img class="logo logo-large" src="/images/selenium_logo_large.png"/>
      <img class="logo logo-small" src="/images/selenium_logo_square_green.png"/>
      <img class="logo logo-small logo-hide" src="/images/selenium_logo_square_white.png"/>
    </a>

  <a id="dropdownButton" class="dropdownButton" onClick="toggleMenu()">MENU +</a>
	<nav id="navbar" class="navbar">
        <div class="nav-item" onClick="toggleAboutNav()">
            <span>About</span>
            <div id="aboutArrow" class="arrow-down"></div>
        </div>
              <ul id="aboutSubnav" class="about-subnav">
                  <div class="subnav subnav-item">
                    <a href="/about">About</a>
                  </div>
                  <div class="subnav subnav-item">
                    <a href="/project">Governance</a>
                  </div>
                  <div class="subnav subnav-item">
                    <a href="/events">Events</a>
                  </div>
                  <div class="subnav subnav-item">
                    <a href="/ecosystem">Ecosystem</a>
                  </div>
                  <div class="subnav subnav-item">
                    <a href="/history">History</a>
                  </div>
                  <div class="subnav subnav-item">
                    <a href="/getinvolved">Get Involved</a>
                  </div>
                  <div class="subnav subnav-item">
                    <a href="/sponsors">Sponsors</a>
                  </div>
              </ul>
		<a class="nav-item" href="/downloads">Downloads</a>
		<a class="nav-item" href="/projects">Projects</a>
		<a class="nav-item" href="/documentation">Documentation</a>
		<a class="nav-item" href="/support">Support</a>
		<a class="nav-item" href="/blog">Blog</a>
        <div class="nav-item">
        <div class="search-bar-container">
            <script>
              (function() {
                var cx = '018435082943254453647:ktxsp1-jcb8';
                var gcse = document.createElement('script');
                gcse.type = 'text/javascript';
                gcse.async = true;
                gcse.src = 'https://cse.google.com/cse.js?cx=' + cx;
                var s = document.getElementsByTagName('script')[0];
                s.parentNode.insertBefore(gcse, s);
              })();
            </script>
            <gcse:searchbox-only></gcse:searchbox-only>
            <img class="search-icon" src="/images/search.png"/>
        </div>
        </div>
  </nav>
</header>
<body>

<script>
  function activateSearch() {
    console.log('ACTIVATE')
  }

  function toggleMenu() {
    const navbarItems = document.getElementsByClassName("nav-item");
    const navbarElements = [...navbarItems];
    const smallLogos = document.getElementsByClassName("logo logo-small");
    const logoElements = [...smallLogos];
    const header = document.getElementById("header");
    const dropdownButton = document.getElementById("dropdownButton");
    const subnavs = document.getElementsByClassName("about-subnav");
    const subnavElements = [...subnavs];
    const aboutArrow = document.getElementById("aboutArrow");

    if(dropdownButton.innerText === "MENU +") {
      dropdownButton.innerText = "MENU -"
    } else dropdownButton.innerText = "MENU +"

    
    navbarElements.forEach(element => {
      if(element.className === "nav-item") {
        element.className += " dropdown-active"
      } else {
        element.className = "nav-item"
      }
    })

    
    subnavElements.forEach(element => {
      element.className = "about-subnav";
    });

    
    aboutArrow.className = "arrow-down";

    
    logoElements.forEach(element => {
      if(element.className.includes("logo-hide")) {
        element.className = "logo logo-small"
      } else {
        element.className += " logo-hide"
      }
    })

    
    if(header.className === "header") {
      header.className += " dropdown-active"
    } else {
      header.className = "header"
    }
  }

  function toggleAboutNav() {
    const aboutSubnav = document.getElementById("aboutSubnav");
    const aboutArrow = document.getElementById("aboutArrow");

    if(aboutSubnav.className === "about-subnav") {
      aboutSubnav.className += " about-subnav-active";
    } else {
      aboutSubnav.className = "about-subnav"
    }

    if(aboutArrow.className === "arrow-up") aboutArrow.className = "arrow-down";
    else aboutArrow.className = "arrow-up";
  }
</script>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/blog.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/main.css"/>
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Encode+Sans" rel="stylesheet">

<body>
<section class="hero">
    <a href="/blog"><h1>Selenium Blog - 2020 Archive</h1></a>
</section>

<div class="blog-container">
    <div class="blog-content">
        
        
        <div class="container dark-background">
            June 10, 2020 by <a href="https://twitter.com/AutomatedTester">AutomatedTester</a>
            <a href="https://selenium.dev/blog/2020/how-selenium-works-transport/"><h2>How Selenium Works: Episode 1 - Transportation</h2></a>
            <p>After an interaction on the last weekend of January 2020, on a Selenium Issue where someone said “why can’t you just…” after I explained the issue I thought that I would start explaining commands in Selenium WebDriver and why we landed on the design that we have today.</p>
<p>I will repeat this on every page of the series but a lot, an annoying amount sometimes, of thinking goes into how every little bit of Selenium works.</p>
<p>Why?</p>
<p>Selenium, by chance and being good at what it does, is used by millions of people around the world as well. It&rsquo;s how companies from Microsoft and Google to the small startup make sure that their site works in every browser.</p>
<h2 id="how-does-selenium-talk-to-the-browser">How Does Selenium talk to the browser?</h2>
<p>Selenium, over the years, decided that we were going to use HTTP to speak to the browser. We built a REST-ish API that every client binding could use and hopefully get the same results.</p>
<h3 id="http-and-rest-ish-really">HTTP and REST-ish? Really?</h3>
<p>Yea&hellip;</p>
<p>Let&rsquo;s start with the HTTP part. When we started we had to have a unique way to speak for each browser based on the best way to speak to them. So for Internet Explorer we wrote COM code. It was fine, it worked but gave us nightmares. For Firefox we wrote a monstrocity that read line by line and, thankfully, due to Mozilla&rsquo;s &ldquo;make the browser yours&rdquo; attitude we could do a lot. Opera allowed us to go in via the DevTools protocol.</p>
<p>Now, it meant that, especially in the early days of WebDriver, we would need to maintain N: M bindings where N is the language bindings and  M is the browsers we support. This is not a road to a good product. We decided that we need something that every language would understand. We also needed something that would be pretty robust. HTTP was chosen and we set about building the <code>JSONWireProtocol</code>.</p>
<p>The <code>JSONWireProtocol</code> is where we built a REST-ish interface that would speak JSON. I say REST-ish because it didn&rsquo;t follow all the principles of REST but enough to make it powerful for our needs.</p>
<h3 id="how-does-it-relate-to-things-now">How does it relate to things now?</h3>
<p>The Web, the internet, and the world has moved on. Why hasn&rsquo;t Selenium?</p>
<p>This is a good question and the thing is we are trying to move things on. Unfortunately the web has a state where it is broken unless it is working. HTTP is pretty robust as a protocol. It can also allow people to build up clusters for testing without having to worry too much about how the multiplexing would work. This is the reason why Selenium Grid was created and is still a pretty good choice when it comes to farming out your testing to multiple devices and multiple machines.</p>
<h3 id="but-some-automation-framework-that-uses-chrome-debug-protocol-is-more-like-the-web-be-like-them">But <strong>Some automation Framework that uses Chrome Debug Protocol</strong> is more like the web, be like them.</h3>
<p>So&hellip; There are tools that use Chrome&rsquo;s Debug Protocol to drive the browser and some of the things they do better than Selenium are down to their choice of how they speak to the speak to the browser. Unfortunately it&rsquo;s a Chrome proprietary protocol and Google is not interested in working with other browsers on making it not.</p>
<p>Also, ignoring the interesting design choices from the the Google team, there is the problem that we have to have a permenantly open connection. In this case it uses WebSockets but if you remember my comment earlier about the internet is down until it&rsquo;s up. WebSockets would be constantly re-establishing the connection. There is also the problem of how much traffic would be going up and down that pipe.</p>
<p>This is fine for puppeteer where you are only speaking to something on your local machine but if you are combining a CI service, like Circle CI or TravisCI and something like AWS Device Farm, Sauce Labs, or BrowserStack you suddenly have a lot of internet inbetween you and your runner and that data needs to get somewhere.</p>
<p>The W3C Browser Testing and Tools Working group, which is made up of browser vendors and Selenium folk, are trying to design what this will look like to make sure that we can make it cross browser from the start without having to do weird hacky patches to browsers and ship those browsers ourselves.</p>
<h2 id="want-to-read-more">Want to read more?</h2>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/#processing-model">WebDriver Specification details about transport</a></li>
</ul>
<p>This was originally posted to <a href="https://www.theautomatedtester.co.uk/">https://www.theautomatedtester.co.uk/</a></p>

            

<p><b>Tags</b></p>
<divs>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/selenium/">selenium</a></divs>


            

<p><b>Categories</b></p>
<div>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/categories/general/">general</a></div>


            <div class="share-container">
                <h3>Share this: </h3>

                <a href="mailto:?&subject=Selenium Blog - How%20Selenium%20Works%3a%20Episode%201%20-%20Transportation&body=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fhow-selenium-works-transport%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/mail.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://twitter.com/home?status=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fhow-selenium-works-transport%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/twitter.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://selenium.dev"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/facebook.png"/></a>
            </div>
        </div>
        
        
        
        <div class="container dark-background">
            June 4, 2020 by <a href="https://twitter.com/harsha509">Harsha</a>
            <a href="https://selenium.dev/blog/2020/public-project-meeting-20200604/"><h2>Public Project Meeting - June 04, 2020</h2></a>
            <p>Continuing the series of bi-weekly public project meetings, here is the
timeline of the meeting held on June 04, 2020 (times are on IST).</p>
<p>Meetings are held on the <code>#selenium-tlc</code> channel on <a href="https://seleniumhq.slack.com/join/shared_invite/enQtODAwOTUzOTM5OTEwLTZjZjgzN2ExOTBmZGE0NjkwYzA2Nzc0MjczMGYwYjdiNGQ5YjI0ZjdjYjFhMjVlMjFkZWJmNDYyMmU1OTYyM2Y">Selenium Slack</a>.</p>
<p>The next meeting will be on June 18, 2020, 4:30 PM CET.</p>
<hr>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:05 PM</em></p>
<p>the agenda will be:</p>
<ul>
<li>anything people want to add in the next 2 minutes</li>
<li>me looking to previous agendas and adding those items here</li>
</ul>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:06 PM</em></p>
<p>Hahaha</p>
<p>Agenda item: path to betas</p>
<p>8:07
I’d like to hear about the work that @AutomatedTester has in mind for his interns, and how (as a project) we’ll support them</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:08 PM</em></p>
<p>Agenda:</p>
<ul>
<li>general project statistics</li>
<li>any overall announcements? new people on committees, have the commit bit, etc?</li>
<li>so do we want/need to wait for that work to be done before doing Alpha 7?</li>
<li>Work to be done before beta? (Path to betas)</li>
<li>when is the next SFC call? (if its happened in the last two weeks, anything to report)</li>
<li>Did anyone pick up the ball to talk to Miki about the go bindings?</li>
<li>SeConf India SeConf Chicago</li>
<li>Selenium Conf website in GitHub org?</li>
<li>IDE to main repo?</li>
<li>CoC</li>
</ul>
<p>Let&rsquo;s start</p>
<p>8:09
general project statistics:
two weeks ago: 391 open issues, open pull request: 68
now: 343 open issues, open pull request: 72</p>
<p>8:10
looking better, let&rsquo;s keep the pace!
1</p>
<p>next item:;
any overall announcements? new people on committees, have the commit bit, etc?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:11 PM</em></p>
<p>Just a quick note that @Bongosway has landed a few patches recently. I’m hoping that we find a way to help him into the fold a little more</p>
<p>And a high five to @rajendra for his work on the JDBC stuff
1 reply
4 days ago
View thread</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:12 PM</em></p>
<p>absolutely, thanks for contributing!</p>
<p>anything else or should we move to the next item in the agenda?</p>
<p>8:13
ok, next item:
what do we need to be done before doing Alpha 7?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:15 PM</em></p>
<p>Things I’d like to see:</p>
<ul>
<li>Switch to the reactor client for http</li>
<li>Land a basic replacement for the UI</li>
<li>Straw-man proposals for the functionality that might rely on CDP</li>
</ul>
<p>Of which that last is in my court</p>
<p><em>David Burns  8:16 PM</em></p>
<ol>
<li>I am working on</li>
</ol>
<p>as for my interns, one of which in here so say hi to @Saksham Gupta</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:17 PM</em></p>
<p>waves to @Saksham Gupta!
1</p>
<p><em>David Burns  8:17 PM</em></p>
<p>They will be extending the GraphQL system with in grid (@Saksham Gupta )</p>
<p>and Phani, when he joins, will be building out the Grid UI and modernising it</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:18 PM</em></p>
<p>that sounds great!</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:18 PM</em></p>
<p>welcome, @Saksham Gupta!
1</p>
<p><em>David Burns  8:18 PM</em></p>
<p>The goal of the work is to add most, if not all, the features we want in this area</p>
<p><em>8:19</em></p>
<p>both @Saksham Gupta and Phani will be supported by me and @rajendra</p>
<p><em>8:20</em></p>
<p>and next week we have another member joining our team who we can get to support both interns to make sure we don&rsquo;t have any performance hits with the work they add and guide them through perf profiling. etc</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:20 PM</em></p>
<p>@Saksham Gupta you might find this useful: <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aFMmmMhBg1PgfTPmyaXaEJAhsh0lf3p0VpV7kfHIstI/edit">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aFMmmMhBg1PgfTPmyaXaEJAhsh0lf3p0VpV7kfHIstI/edit</a></p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:20 PM</em></p>
<p>anything else pending from the non-Java stuff?</p>
<p>I know CDP is not working with JS yet, not sure about Python</p>
<p><em>David Burns  8:20 PM</em></p>
<p>Non-java we need to add CDP to python and JS which my team will be doing</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:21 PM</em></p>
<p>One thing i’m keen on is steering users away from raw CDP</p>
<p><em>David Burns  8:21 PM</em></p>
<p>agreed</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:21 PM</em></p>
<p>When we get WebDriver BiDi in place, we’d like to use that where possible</p>
<p>CDP is ugly, hard to use, and deeply fragile</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:22 PM</em></p>
<p>that is a good point, because we don&rsquo;t want GitHub issues reporting bugs merely due to something failing in CDP</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:23 PM</em></p>
<p>Something will fail with the CDP stuff</p>
<p>I may have to version it independently of the rest of the java pieces.</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:23 PM</em></p>
<p>is the idea to have CDP in JS and Python for Alpha 7?</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:23 PM</em></p>
<p>has the chromium team talked at all about CDP becoming a standard, or publishing a roadmap? (I&rsquo;m off to put this exact question into google)</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:24 PM</em></p>
<p>They’re involved with the webdriver bidi stuff</p>
<p>I think there’s a lot of value separating “automation” from “debugging APIs”</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:24 PM</em></p>
<p>yeah</p>
<p><em>David Burns  8:24 PM</em></p>
<p>the spec is being worked on right now</p>
<p>I have been reviewing it this week</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:24 PM</em></p>
<p>I saw the transcript from last week, good stuff</p>
<p><em>David Burns  8:25 PM</em></p>
<p>CDP is not going to be the standard</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:25 PM</em></p>
<p>asking again to stay in the topic, is the idea to have CDP in JS and Python for Alpha 7?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:25 PM</em></p>
<p>Yes</p>
<p><em>David Burns  8:25 PM</em></p>
<p>@diemol maybe.. hopefully</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:25 PM</em></p>
<p>We need all languages to have that in place before we can move to betas</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:27 PM</em></p>
<p>I have seen a few PRs from <a href="https://github.com/seanpoulter,">https://github.com/seanpoulter,</a> he seems keen to help in JS
he already asked how he can implement relative locators in JS
we should try to give him quick feedback</p>
<p>Sean Poulter
Location
Ottawa, Canada
Repositories
22
Followers
17
@seanpoulter | Oct 18th, 2012 | Added by GitHub</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:28 PM</em></p>
<p>@harsha509 would you like to help with that? Or @corevo?</p>
<p>And</p>
<p><em>David Burns  8:28 PM</em></p>
<p>JS relative locators is in there, might need some TLC</p>
<p><em>Sri Harsha  8:28 PM</em></p>
<p>i need a week to hack into js things. currently busy in paid work</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:28 PM</em></p>
<p>NP.</p>
<p>8:29
These paid jobs are what allow us to have the luxury of working on OSS. Focusing on them makes a lot of sense</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:29 PM</em></p>
<p>in any case, let&rsquo;s try to give feedback, we are in the look for JS maintainers and who knows if he could be &ldquo;the one&rdquo;</p>
<p>ok, next item?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:30 PM</em></p>
<p>Have we finished the beta discussion?</p>
<p>I don’t think we’ve got more items to add to it</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:31 PM</em></p>
<p>no, that is next</p>
<p>Work to be done before beta? (Path to betas)</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:31 PM</em></p>
<p>The things for alpha-7 are the blockers for beta</p>
<p>8:32
After that, I think the changes are incremental rather than entirely new features</p>
<p>8:33
(other than (maybe) pluggable locators0</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:33 PM</em></p>
<p>also my &ldquo;drain&rdquo; feature</p>
<p>I&rsquo;m negotiating a couple days with my paid work to get back on that</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:33 PM</em></p>
<p>That’d be nice to get into a7</p>
<p>I suspect that the graphql stuff will cause some changes to have to happen</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:33 PM</em></p>
<p>can we set up a time to pair for an hour or so?</p>
<p><em>Sri Harsha  8:33 PM</em></p>
<p>I will take over maintaining JS bindings for sure in future</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:33 PM</em></p>
<p>@mmerrell sure</p>
<p>8:34
I’m around monday and tuesday next week</p>
<p>@harsha509 WOOHOO!</p>
<p>That’d be awesome</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:34 PM</em></p>
<p>perfect&ndash;I&rsquo;ve just blocked out most of the day for it</p>
<p>I know what I need to do, but would like a bit of validation on the approach, and then I need to test it</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:36 PM</em></p>
<p>ok, seems the betas part has been mostly discussed in the Alpha 7 part and these previous lines</p>
<p>if everyone is ok with it, next topic
2</p>
<p>when is the next SFC call? (if its happened in the last two weeks, anything to report)</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:36 PM</em></p>
<p>it happened Tuesday, and I believe we primarily discussed the conference</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:38 PM</em></p>
<p>ah perfect, there is an item in the agenda for &ldquo;SeConf India SeConf Chicago&rdquo;</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:38 PM</em></p>
<p>@manoj9788 will know the most about that</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:40 PM</em></p>
<p>yep</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:40 PM</em></p>
<p>is there something else to comment from SFC or conferences? or should we move to the next item?</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:40 PM</em></p>
<p>I can speak for Chicago</p>
<p>I don&rsquo;t think we talked about anything else&hellip; the SFC wasn&rsquo;t present on the call</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:41 PM</em></p>
<p>would you like to say something about the Chicago conference?&rsquo;</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:41 PM</em></p>
<p>yeah&ndash;we&rsquo;re negotiating with the hotel to take our contract and move it to 2021, around the same time of year</p>
<p><em>8:42</em></p>
<p>we&rsquo;re waiting to hear back from them with a selection of dates in the Sep-Oct-Nov range</p>
<p>hoping not to have it the week before Thanksgiving, but also hoping to keep the room rates low</p>
<p><em>8:43</em></p>
<p>as to this year, we&rsquo;re talking about holding a very sane, relatively small virtual conference, or a series of webinars spread over a couple months</p>
<p>we&rsquo;re also discussing having another group help us out with planning and execution, someone with experience at promoting and running virtual conferences</p>
<p><em>8:44</em></p>
<p>the first discussion will happen today, and if we decide to explore further, I will probably feel more comfortable talking about who we&rsquo;re considering</p>
<p>there is a lot to consider for a virtual conference, and we want to make sure we are thoughtful and careful</p>
<p><em>Rajendra Kadam  8:44 PM</em></p>
<p>replied to a thread:
And a high five to @rajendra for his work on the JDBC stuff
Thanks @simonstewart.
. It wouldn&rsquo;t have been complete without your help.
1</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:44 PM</em></p>
<p>all that is already a lot of info, thanks for sharing!</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:45 PM</em></p>
<p>for SeConf India, I don&rsquo;t know if @manoj9788 is on and would like to share. If not, I can at least say a little about what they&rsquo;re considering, I just don&rsquo;t want it to be incomplete</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:46 PM</em></p>
<p>up to you I would say</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:48 PM</em></p>
<p>it appears that there&rsquo;s no way they&rsquo;re going to be able to put on a conference in September in Bangalore. The borders and COVID caseload aren&rsquo;t adequately under control, and much like the US conference, there are too many variables that would need to be under control right now for Naresh to feel confident about having an in-person conference a scant 3 months from now
1</p>
<p>(by &ldquo;borders&rdquo; I mean &ldquo;international travel &amp; quarantine procedures&rdquo;)</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:48 PM</em></p>
<p>that makes a lot of sense</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  8:50 PM</em></p>
<p>so we are discussing whether or not we can essentially combine the notion of a virtual conference. That troubles me because I know that all parties involved want to see revenue, but the Selenium project doesn&rsquo;t want to charge for admission. I&rsquo;m concerned there would be too many hands in the pot for any one of them to receive enough $$ to make it worth their while</p>
<p>but that&rsquo;s my own concern&ndash;not meant to represent the opinion of the planning committee. We&rsquo;re looking for data, not opinions&ndash;so we&rsquo;re reaching out to people who have been through this in recent weeks to find out what&rsquo;s possible</p>
<p>8:51
we hope to report in a couple weeks on any progress, both with planning the virtual conference, and with whether or not we can expect to fund our coffers in the near future</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:51 PM</em></p>
<p>ok, then we can follow up in the next meeting, thanks!
1</p>
<p>8:52
next topic: Did anyone pick up the ball to talk to Miki about the go bindings?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:52 PM</em></p>
<p>Not me</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:52 PM</em></p>
<p>I think no one did but we should keep the topic around, and try to get to it when we have Se 4 released or close to be released</p>
<p>8:53
adding one more binding now would be too distracting
which does not mean that we cannot reach out to him</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:54 PM</em></p>
<p>Agreed</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:55 PM</em></p>
<p>ok, let&rsquo;s move to the next one since we only have a few minutes left</p>
<p>Selenium Conf website in GitHub org?</p>
<p>I see the site was revamped, so great job @andrewmkrug</p>
<p>8:56
but I am not sure if @andrewmkrug is having problems to push the code to the org
I can reach out to him</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:56 PM</em></p>
<p>Thank you
1</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:56 PM</em></p>
<p>next topic: IDE to main repo?</p>
<p><em>8:57</em></p>
<p>I guess we should focus more on the bindings and the Grid for now?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:58 PM</em></p>
<p>I think @AutomatedTester has already done a chunk of the heavy lifting</p>
<p><em>9:00</em></p>
<p>Got to go. Meeting time</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  9:00 PM</em></p>
<p>last topic was CoC, but we can take it next time</p>
<p>well, we covered everything (almost), thank you everyone!
1</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  9:01 PM</em></p>
<p>thank YOU, @diemol
1</p>

            

<p><b>Tags</b></p>
<divs>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/slack/">slack</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/meeting/">meeting</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/tlc/">tlc</a></divs>


            

<p><b>Categories</b></p>
<div>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/categories/general/">general</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/categories/governance/">governance</a></div>


            <div class="share-container">
                <h3>Share this: </h3>

                <a href="mailto:?&subject=Selenium Blog - Public%20Project%20Meeting%20-%20June%2004%2c%202020&body=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fpublic-project-meeting-20200604%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/mail.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://twitter.com/home?status=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fpublic-project-meeting-20200604%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/twitter.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://selenium.dev"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/facebook.png"/></a>
            </div>
        </div>
        
        
        
        <div class="container dark-background">
            June 1, 2020 by <a href="https://twitter.com/diemol">diemol</a>
            <a href="https://selenium.dev/blog/2020/selenium-4-alpha-6-is-out/"><h2>Selenium 4.0 Alpha 6 is out!</h2></a>
            <p>We are very pleased to announce the release of <!-- raw HTML omitted -->Selenium 4.0 Alpha 6<!-- raw HTML omitted -->.</p>
<p>All the information can be seen in different tweets from the project contributors, here they are all in one place:</p>
<p><blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Happy Friday! I&#39;ve just pushed Selenium 4.0a6 for Java. There&#39;s a lot of nice changes:<br><br>* Full remoting of the CDP protocol across the Grid<br>* The skeleton of our GraphQL support<br>* Better configuration options, especially for Nodes, via TOML<br>* A bajillion improvements &amp; fixes<br><br>1/5</p>&mdash; Simon Mavi Stewart (@shs96c) <a href="https://twitter.com/shs96c/status/1266307374941437952?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 29, 2020</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">As ever, this release is the product of hard work and contributions not only from the core team (special thanks to <a href="https://twitter.com/barancev?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@barancev</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/diemol?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@diemol</a>. You&#39;ve done amazing work!) but also from a host of other people. In that spirit, I&#39;d like to thank… 2/5</p>&mdash; Simon Mavi Stewart (@shs96c) <a href="https://twitter.com/shs96c/status/1266307376279359488?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 29, 2020</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">In no particular order:<br><br>* Amit Bhoraniya<br>* <a href="https://twitter.com/bongosway?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@bongosway</a><br>* Gerry Gao<br>* Sridhar Upputuri<br>* John Chen<br>* <a href="https://twitter.com/alb_i986?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@alb_i986</a><br>* Rahul Shah<br>* <a href="https://twitter.com/ulfjack?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@ulfjack</a> <br><br>I&#39;ve linked to the twitter handle where I know it. Give &#39;em a high five! Selenium wouldn&#39;t be possible without the help of the community! 3/5</p>&mdash; Simon Mavi Stewart (@shs96c) <a href="https://twitter.com/shs96c/status/1266307377420275713?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 29, 2020</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I&#39;m hoping that the next alpha will be the last alpha. The &quot;big ticket&quot; items remaining are:<br><br>* Provide nice APIs to take advantage of the CDP<br>* Flesh out the GraphQL support<br>* A nice UI to take advantage of the GraphQL endpoint<br>* Robustness work in the Grid<br><br>4/5</p>&mdash; Simon Mavi Stewart (@shs96c) <a href="https://twitter.com/shs96c/status/1266307378485563392?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 29, 2020</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">You can come and join in the fun by either heading over to the GitHub project and picking a task (<a href="https://t.co/2ifj6CkeEV">https://t.co/2ifj6CkeEV</a>) or (and!) coming to have a chat on Slack <a href="https://t.co/4aEDqyI6gq">https://t.co/4aEDqyI6gq</a> 5/5</p>&mdash; Simon Mavi Stewart (@shs96c) <a href="https://twitter.com/shs96c/status/1266307379513171968?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 29, 2020</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I have just tagged <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Selenium?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Selenium</a> 4a6 on GitHub. It&#39;s got a lot of nice cleanups as we edge closer to a proper <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Selenium?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Selenium</a> 4 release!</p>&mdash; David Burns (@AutomatedTester) <a href="https://twitter.com/AutomatedTester/status/1266025050706149379?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 28, 2020</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">selenium-webdriver 4.0.0.alpha6 has just been released. The biggest change is an experimental support for Chrome DevTools protocol! Read more in changelog <a href="https://t.co/1l2XYkaEfB">https://t.co/1l2XYkaEfB</a>.<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/selenium?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#selenium</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ruby?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ruby</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/devtools?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#devtools</a></p>&mdash; Alex Rodionov (@p0deje) <a href="https://twitter.com/p0deje/status/1266144106885111814?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 28, 2020</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</p>
<p>Happy hacking!</p>

            

<p><b>Tags</b></p>
<divs>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/selenium/">selenium</a></divs>


            

<p><b>Categories</b></p>
<div>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/categories/general/">general</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/categories/releases/">releases</a></div>


            <div class="share-container">
                <h3>Share this: </h3>

                <a href="mailto:?&subject=Selenium Blog - Selenium%204.0%20Alpha%206%20is%20out%21&body=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fselenium-4-alpha-6-is-out%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/mail.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://twitter.com/home?status=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fselenium-4-alpha-6-is-out%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/twitter.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://selenium.dev"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/facebook.png"/></a>
            </div>
        </div>
        
        
        
        <div class="container dark-background">
            May 9, 2020 by <a href="https://twitter.com/harsha509">Harsha</a>
            <a href="https://selenium.dev/blog/2020/public-project-meeting-20200507/"><h2>Public Project Meeting - May 07, 2020</h2></a>
            <p>Continuing the series of bi-weekly public project meetings, here is the
timeline of the meeting held on May 07, 2020 (times are on IST).</p>
<p>Meetings are held on the <code>#selenium-tlc</code> channel on <a href="https://seleniumhq.slack.com/join/shared_invite/enQtODAwOTUzOTM5OTEwLTZjZjgzN2ExOTBmZGE0NjkwYzA2Nzc0MjczMGYwYjdiNGQ5YjI0ZjdjYjFhMjVlMjFkZWJmNDYyMmU1OTYyM2Y">Selenium Slack</a>.</p>
<p>The next meeting will be on May 21, 2020, 4:30 PM CET.</p>
<hr>
<p><em>adamgoucher  8:00 PM</em></p>
<p>alright. welcome back. time for another fortnightly chat about the project.</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  8:01 PM</em></p>
<p>:wave:</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  8:01 PM</em></p>
<p>:wave:</p>
<p><em>Sri Harsha  8:01 PM</em></p>
<p>:wave:</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:02 PM</em></p>
<p>some general project statistics;
open issues: 391
open pull request: 68
(which is the lowest i think ive seen either of those numbers before)</p>
<p><em>8:03</em></p>
<p>agenda wise, this is going to be more loosey-goosey than normal as i’m swamped with day job so ignoring things. we’ll see is that is a good thing or not.</p>
<p><em>8:03</em></p>
<p>any overall announcements? new people on committees, have the commit bit, etc?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:04 PM</em></p>
<p>I’ve landed the update to OpenTracing, which unblocks me</p>
<p><em>8:04</em></p>
<p>Next step is to wire the tracing into the Docker support
And then pick up the websocket forwarding</p>
<p><em>8:05</em></p>
<p>(Which, to be fair, is “mostly done”)</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:05 PM</em></p>
<p>heh. the last 20% takes the other 80% of the time :slightly_smiling_face:</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:05 PM</em></p>
<p>The Pareto Principle in action</p>
<p><em>8:06</em></p>
<p>I’d be happy pushing a6 before the next meeting</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:06 PM</em></p>
<p>what do we think is missing from a6 now?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:06 PM</em></p>
<p>It’s been a while since we did a release, and there’s progress in there</p>
<p><em>8:07</em></p>
<p>I’d dearly love the websocket forwarding, but I can live without it
@diemol landed the first work with Fail Safe for some more robustness in the Grid</p>
<p><em>8:08</em></p>
<p>I think @barancev is also making some progress switching the underlying HTTP engine again</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:08 PM</em></p>
<p>looks like there was a bunch of plumbing / dependencies updated in the last week especially with .net and python</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:08 PM</em></p>
<p>@jimevans and @AutomatedTester know more than I do</p>
<p><em>Jim Evans   8:10 PM</em></p>
<p>yes, the .NET bindings build using bazel should now work cross-platform. you should be able to run .NET tests using bazel test (with caveats, which i’ve yet to fully document). it kinda works within VS code, but one can for certain develop using Visual Studio 2019 on Windows, and Visual Studio for Mac on MacOS.</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:11 PM</em>
(still breaks my head to write .net code on mac)</p>
<p><em>8:11</em></p>
<p>what more was needed for the http engine stuff? i thought there was a flag in there already?</p>
<p><em>8:12</em></p>
<p>or did we change it again, again</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:13 PM</em></p>
<p>The underlying library didn’t support http/2 or unix domain sockets, despite it being possible</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:14 PM</em></p>
<p>so do we want/need to wait for that work to be done-ish before doing a6? so far that sounds like the only thing that will be confusing to release partially implemented</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:14 PM</em></p>
<p>Nah.</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:15 PM</em></p>
<p>scans commits in another window</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:15 PM</em></p>
<p>As long as it’s in before we start on the betas, we’ll be fine</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:15 PM</em></p>
<p>a question i know we dont have an answer for, but do we have a gut feel for how many more a’s there are before we start the b’s?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:16 PM</em></p>
<p>The major outstanding features are:
websocket forwarding
graph-ql support</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:16 PM</em></p>
<p>thats not that horrid of a list. its been much worse</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:17 PM</em></p>
<p>We’ve been chipping away at it</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:18 PM</em></p>
<p>so if a6 is within the next 2 weeks, do we have a trigger condition for releasing it?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:18 PM</em></p>
<p>No trigger condition</p>
<p><em>8:18</em></p>
<p>Other than “someone updates the changelog”, I guess</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:19 PM</em></p>
<p>do we want to say ‘a6 is next tuesday’ so that all the maintainers are ready to build and tag everything? (feel like we can’t magically do it all from ci but could be making that up)</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:20 PM</em></p>
<p>The graphql piece is to support the ui, so strictly speaking we don’t really need it, but it keeps things flexible</p>
<p><em>8:20</em></p>
<p>@AutomatedTester, @p0deje, @jimevans, @titusfortner, @harsha509 Cool with shipping an alpha next week?</p>
<p><em>Jim Evans   8:21 PM</em></p>
<p>+1 from me.</p>
<p><em>Sri Harsha   8:21 PM</em></p>
<p>Yes</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina   8:22 PM</em></p>
<p>how are we handling the numbers in JS, JS is already in a7, right?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:22 PM</em></p>
<p>“alpha-n+1”</p>
<p><em>Sri Harsha   8:22 PM</em></p>
<p>Yes @diemol . Do you have any suggestions @corevo . He should be releasing the next alpha as i know.</p>
<p><em>Alex Rodionov   8:23 PM</em></p>
<p>+1 from me</p>
<p><em>Tomer Steinfeld   8:25 PM</em></p>
<p>JS has been in alpha for a long time because of historical reasons</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:25 PM</em></p>
<p>ok. so thats covers the bulk of the pressing tech stuff. other stuff that could be discussed;
when is the next sfc call? (if its happened in the last two weeks, anything to report)
did anyone pick up the ball to talk to miki about the go bindings?
seconf india
seconf us
state of the se-ide into the main repo</p>
<p><em>Tomer Steinfeld   8:25 PM</em></p>
<p>I think we can land stable 4.0 together, but I don&rsquo;t see a reason we should release 4 alphas together</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:26 PM</em></p>
<p>(or we can keep talking about js too. but that list is just my remaining things)</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell   8:26 PM</em></p>
<p>the PLC call happened on Tuesday, it was just me and Jim. We mostly talked about conferences, and we were going to follow up with Simon about the status of the Code of Conduct</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:27 PM</em></p>
<p>Uhh… I thought @AutomatedTester was running with the CoC stuff.</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell   8:27 PM</em></p>
<p>at this point India is still slated to happen in September, same venue. I don&rsquo;t know the latest about speakers or progress or anything like that</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:27 PM</em></p>
<p>It’s entirely possible I am mistaken</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:27 PM</em></p>
<p>i thought david was on that too</p>
<p><em>Tomer Steinfeld   8:27 PM</em></p>
<p>Is there an update from the SFC about the MS store?</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell   8:28 PM</em></p>
<p>ok, I thought David was on the MS Store issue, and not the CoC, but it wouldn&rsquo;t be the first time I was mistaken</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina   8:28 PM</em></p>
<p>why don&rsquo;t we take the CoC draft we have, add it to the new site, and iterate on it?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:28 PM</em></p>
<p>We were going to get a review and some guidance from Sage Sharp</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell   8:29 PM</em></p>
<p>for Chicago, we&rsquo;ve got a verbal understanding that the venue will allow us to reschedule the conference for sometime next year with no fees. We&rsquo;ve already given them a somewhat hefty deposit, and while we could likely fight to get that back, we&rsquo;d rather just have it next April or October&ndash;we&rsquo;re going to make that decision in late May/early June</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina   8:30 PM</em></p>
<p>for the SeleniumConf website, @andrewmkrug has joined the Selenium GitHub org, and he is helping us to push the site code to a private repo</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell   8:30 PM</em></p>
<p>for the Fall, we&rsquo;re considering an online-only conference, and we&rsquo;re waiting for a few pieces of data to come in over the next couple weeks, around TestBash and SauceCon, to gauge how they went, ideas for optimization, pros/cons, do&rsquo;s don&rsquo;t&rsquo;s, etc</p>
<p><em>Andrew Krug  8:30 PM</em></p>
<p>was added to #selenium-tlc by Diego Molina.</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell   8:32 PM</em></p>
<p>I spoke to Deb (from SFC) quite a bit on Friday about tips and pointers for an online-only conference, and I&rsquo;ve started to develop some opinions for how it should be done. I haven&rsquo;t yet, however, come up with a firm position on the pricing model for sponsors or attendees&ndash;I definitely want to offer all the track sessions/keynotes for free, and offer a paid tier for &ldquo;something&rdquo; else, like if people want T-shirts or something else, but it would likely be a model where they pay what they want (to support the project), and the swag they get depends on the tier they buy into</p>
<p><em>8:33</em></p>
<p>I&rsquo;m waiting to hear more from Richard Bradshaw before beginning that discussion, probably during our bi-weekly Conference conference call, on May 28th</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:35 PM</em></p>
<p>so. CoC — when can we get the review and guidance? if its more than ‘not in may’ we should likely throw it up and start the iteration process</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:36 PM</em></p>
<p>It depends on Sage’s availability, and that of the people working on the CoC</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:37 PM</em></p>
<p>(which, sounds like we’re not quite sure of who those are from our end)</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:37 PM</em></p>
<p>Last I checked, @mmerrell, @AutomatedTester, @diemol, @jimevans and I were all interested in being involved</p>
<p><em>8:38</em></p>
<p>From memory.</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:38 PM</em></p>
<p>so the nebulous items seem to be;
determine who is actually on the coc stuff</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:38 PM</em></p>
<p>Agreed</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:38 PM</em></p>
<p>doh! no editing. and,
determine who is actually doing the ms store stuff</p>
<p><em>8:40</em></p>
<p>which means, for the next meeting;</p>
<ul>
<li>release a6 (a7 of js)</li>
<li>report who is point and who is assisting with the CoC</li>
<li>report who is leading the ms store stuff</li>
</ul>
<p><em>8:41</em></p>
<p>anyone else have anything they want / need to discuss in public?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:41 PM</em></p>
<p>I’m good</p>
<p><em>8:41</em></p>
<p>Though perhaps we should figure out who owns what on that list
I hold the build bacon this time</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina   8:42 PM</em></p>
<p>maybe we can record how a release is done? and from that I can write docs</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:43 PM</em></p>
<p>I’ll walk you through the process
We did have it written up here: <a href="https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/wiki/Releasing-Selenium">https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/wiki/Releasing-Selenium</a></p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:43 PM</em></p>
<p>from the april 23 meeting, looks like @AutomatedTester is the store person
Screen Shot 2020-05-07 at 11.12.57 AM.png
Screen Shot 2020-05-07 at 11.12.57 AM.png</p>
<p><em>David Burns  2 days ago</em></p>
<p>I am waiting on replies from SFC. I chased up yesterday. Have meeting with MS next week</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:45 PM</em></p>
<p>anyone volunteering for CoC lead?</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina   8:46 PM</em></p>
<p>ah nice, the release process is written, we &ldquo;just&rdquo; need to update it</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:46 PM</em></p>
<p>The java one doesn’t seem wildly inaccurate</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:48 PM</em></p>
<p>which means, for the next meeting;</p>
<ul>
<li>release a6 (a7 of js) &ndash; simon</li>
<li>report who is point and who is assisting with the CoC &ndash; tbd</li>
<li>report who is leading the ms store stuff - david?</li>
</ul>
<p><em>Alexei Barantsev   8:49 PM</em></p>
<p>sorry to be late, I&rsquo;m +1 for the next alpha</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher   8:50 PM</em></p>
<p>so if there isnt anything else, i say we call this thing done and do it all again in a fortnight.</p>
<p><em>8:52</em></p>
<p>slack says no one is furiously typing so, see all y’all in two weeks. as ever, if there is something you want discussed, message me directly or just drop it here for us to pickup</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina   8:53 PM</em></p>
<p>thank you @adamgoucher!</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart   8:54 PM</em></p>
<p>Thanks, @adamgoucher!</p>
<p><em>David Burns   9:24 PM</em></p>
<p>Argh&hellip; missed it again!!!</p>
<p><em>9:28</em></p>
<p>For CoC, I keep dropping the ball on this one. I have been busy with work but hopefully can do something in the next two weeks</p>

            

<p><b>Tags</b></p>
<divs>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/slack/">slack</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/meeting/">meeting</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/tlc/">tlc</a></divs>


            

<p><b>Categories</b></p>
<div>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/categories/general/">general</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/categories/governance/">governance</a></div>


            <div class="share-container">
                <h3>Share this: </h3>

                <a href="mailto:?&subject=Selenium Blog - Public%20Project%20Meeting%20-%20May%2007%2c%202020&body=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fpublic-project-meeting-20200507%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/mail.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://twitter.com/home?status=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fpublic-project-meeting-20200507%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/twitter.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://selenium.dev"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/facebook.png"/></a>
            </div>
        </div>
        
        
        
        <div class="container dark-background">
            April 24, 2020 by <a href="https://twitter.com/diegofmolina">diemol</a>
            <a href="https://selenium.dev/blog/2020/public-project-meeting-20200423/"><h2>Public Project Meeting - April 23, 2020</h2></a>
            <p>Continuing the series of bi-weekly public project meetings, here is the
timeline of the meeting held on April 23, 2020 (times are on CET).</p>
<p>Meetings are held on the <code>#selenium-tlc</code> channel on <a href="https://seleniumhq.slack.com/join/shared_invite/enQtODAwOTUzOTM5OTEwLTZjZjgzN2ExOTBmZGE0NjkwYzA2Nzc0MjczMGYwYjdiNGQ5YjI0ZjdjYjFhMjVlMjFkZWJmNDYyMmU1OTYyM2Y">Selenium Slack</a>.</p>
<p>The next meeting will be on May 7, 2020, 4:30 PM CET.</p>
<hr>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:32 PM</em></p>
<p>Hi all, we are going to start the next project status meeting in a moment</p>
<p>for now, the agenda would be:</p>
<ul>
<li>project stats: +/- issues, prs</li>
<li>any staffing announcements</li>
<li>whats been worked on (seems things are picking up again)</li>
<li>whats next</li>
<li>when do we plan the next release</li>
<li>SeleniumConf status (for India and Chicago), and its website</li>
</ul>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:32 PM</em></p>
<p>Does someone want to announce it on the main #selenium channel too?</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:33 PM</em></p>
<p>I can do that</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:33 PM</em></p>
<p>Thanks</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:34 PM</em></p>
<p>before we start, does anyone want to add a topic?</p>
<p><em>4:36</em></p>
<p>maybe we can also discuss the Go bindings again</p>
<p>but I will take that silence as a &ldquo;no more topics&rdquo;</p>
<p>First topic, project stats: +/- issues, prs&hellip;</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:37 PM</em></p>
<p>@AutomatedTester probably knows those</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:37 PM</em></p>
<p>Since a few weeks we are under 65 PRs and 400 issues, we made progress but not as significant as in the previous weeks</p>
<p>I am looking at a couple of OSS projects that build a dashboard so we have a better overview</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:38 PM</em></p>
<p>It’s the law of diminishing returns. We’re starting to hit actual issues and things that need thinking about</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:41 PM</em></p>
<p>I experimented during the weekend with <a href="https://chaoss.github.io/grimoirelab/">https://chaoss.github.io/grimoirelab/</a> and <a href="https://github.com/cncf/devstats,">https://github.com/cncf/devstats,</a> I liked the first one more, but we need to find a place where to deploy it for free
Recently I bumped into <a href="https://github.com/google/triage-party,">https://github.com/google/triage-party,</a> which could be also a good one to have an overview (edited)</p>
<p><em>4:42</em></p>
<p>all this in the spirit of having a clear project status for everyone</p>
<p>I can try to have something working for the next meeting, does anyone have more comments or should we move to the next topic?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:42 PM</em></p>
<p>No comments from me</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:43 PM</em></p>
<p>next topic: any staffing announcements, what did you mean by this @adamgoucher?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:43 PM</em></p>
<p>@harsha509 has joined the team :slightly_smiling_face:</p>
<p><em>adamgoucher  4:43 PM</em></p>
<p>anyone get the commit bit, step away from a committee, etc.</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:44 PM</em></p>
<p>well, @tourdedave mentioned he does not have the bandwidth to be in the TLC (which is my fault because I added him without asking, in the spirit of having someone from the IDE)</p>
<p><em>4:45</em></p>
<p>we could just leave it as it is or ask around if someone is interested?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:45 PM</em></p>
<p>Having a strong owner for the IDE would be really helpful</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  4:47 PM</em></p>
<p>I&rsquo;m afraid unless he or Tomer change their mind, I&rsquo;m not sure anyone exists who could fit the bill</p>
<p>we maintain really strong contacts with Dave.. that might have to be good enough for now</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:48 PM</em></p>
<p>the TLC has no size limit, so things could continue as they are, right?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:49 PM</em></p>
<p>They could</p>
<p>And it sounds a bit unfair to continue to lean on @tourdedave after he’s stepped away</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:51 PM</em></p>
<p>what the IDE needs for now is support from the PLC, since Microsoft wants to help with having the extension on Edge (new), but I think @AutomatedTester asked to be introduced to them, not sure what the status is there</p>
<p>support as in, sort out legal stuff for creating an account on the MS store</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:52 PM</em></p>
<p>That won’t be hard. Someone needs to message the <a href="mailto:selenium@conservancy.org">selenium@conservancy.org</a></p>
<p><em>Tomer Steinfeld  4:52 PM</em></p>
<p>I introduced @AutomatedTester I think the next step is to have someone from the SFC create an account</p>
<p>To do that we need PLC stamp</p>
<p>So that the SFC will do it</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:52 PM</em></p>
<p>@mmerrell want to run with that, or shall we ask @AutomatedTester to do it?</p>
<p><em>Titus Fortner  4:52 PM</em></p>
<p>What does that give the project though, if it isn&rsquo;t the electron implementation?</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  4:52 PM</em></p>
<p>I can run with it</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:52 PM</em></p>
<p>I’m happy with @AutomatedTester on point here :slightly_smiling_face:</p>
<p><em>Titus Fortner  4:52 PM</em></p>
<p>Not saying we should ever turn down help</p>
<p>Just curious</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  4:53 PM</em></p>
<p>He might have better contacts than me</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:53 PM</em></p>
<p>@titusfortner support on Edge, and maybe someone from MS will step into the gap</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:53 PM</em></p>
<p>to have the IDE working on the new Edge</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:53 PM</em></p>
<p>And also, and this is important, IDE working on Edge (as @diemol says)</p>
<p><em>Titus Fortner  4:55 PM</em></p>
<p>I thought all chromium apps worked already. I should actually use it :)</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:55 PM</em></p>
<p>could we leave as an action item to have @mmerrell (since he is in the PLC) chat with @AutomatedTester in case David needs help with the PLC? and have a status for the next meeting?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  4:56 PM</em></p>
<p>Sure</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  4:57 PM</em></p>
<p>you ok with that @mmerrell?</p>
<p>while he answers, should we move slowly to the next topic?</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:00 PM</em></p>
<p>yeah, I&rsquo;m ok with that</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:00 PM</em></p>
<p>next topic, whats been worked on (seems things are picking up again)</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:00 PM</em></p>
<p>I’ve some diffs lined up</p>
<p><em>5:01</em></p>
<ul>
<li>Streamlining how we manage cli flags and configuration, so that things included on the ClassPath get picked up too</li>
<li>WebSocket proxying</li>
<li>A patch that I started at SeConf (I know) to get relative locators working a little more nicely</li>
<li>I also have experimental support for pinning browser versions (and their drivers) in the bazel build, which resolves some issues that folks may have</li>
</ul>
<p>When I get some bandwidth, landing those would be nice</p>
<p>After that, I’ll dig into the .Net stuff now that @jimevans has it working on macOS and see whether there’s some jiggery-pokery with select we can do so that bazel test //… will work the way we expect it to</p>
<p>Oh, I’ve also started wrapping OpenTelemetry with our own APIs so we do an update without too much chaos</p>
<p>0.2.0 -&gt; 0.3.0 is messy</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:04 PM</em></p>
<p>From my side:</p>
<ul>
<li>Docker images working with the Grid 4 Alpha 5, only supporting standalone and hub/node for now</li>
<li>Working on adding support for retries in the Grid, issue #8167</li>
<li>Also, added tags and categories to the blog in selenium.dev, so now all governance related meetings can be seen at <a href="https://www.selenium.dev/categories/governance/">https://www.selenium.dev/categories/governance/</a></li>
</ul>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:04 PM</em></p>
<p>ditto me for the &ldquo;quiesce&rdquo; feature, in terms of &ldquo;working since SeConf&rdquo; and &ldquo;when I get some bandwidth&rdquo;</p>
<p><em>Jim Evans  5:05 PM</em></p>
<p>@simonstewart let me know what you’d like to see here in terms of .NET.</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:05 PM</em></p>
<p>the bulk of it is complete, still do to:</p>
<p>actually spin down the nodes</p>
<p><em>5:05</em></p>
<p>write unit tests</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:06 PM</em></p>
<p>I’ve still been pondering on how we make it possible to spin the grid up in an ad-hoc order</p>
<p>And I keep coming back to the fact that life would be easier if we had a backbone of a “message bus”, a “key/value store”, and a “service registry”</p>
<p>We definitely have the message bus already</p>
<p>And the session-map is perilously close to being a key/value store</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:07 PM</em></p>
<p>conceptually I wanted to cover that in the support for retries issue, because we cannot expect the docker containers to start always in the same order</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:07 PM</em></p>
<p>Right</p>
<p>Regularly has support for a successful retry and an unsuccessful retry</p>
<p>But we can’t build everything on that :slightly_smiling_face:</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:08 PM</em></p>
<p>I want to tackle that first, so at some point containers can be used in other envs</p>
<p>between <a href="https://jodah.net/failsafe/fallback/">https://jodah.net/failsafe/fallback/</a> and <a href="https://github.com/resilience4j/resilience4j">https://github.com/resilience4j/resilience4j</a> I am liking more the first one (edited)</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:08 PM</em></p>
<p>You’re writing the code, and I like both of them :slightly_smiling_face:</p>
<p><em>5:09</em></p>
<p>Fallback is also used by an alternative netty-based http client</p>
<p>We may need to switch from AsynHttpClient because it doesn’t support http2 (or unix domain sockets)</p>
<p><em>5:10</em></p>
<p>I’ve been looking at io.projectreactor.netty:reactor-netty:0.9.6.RELEASE and I think @barancev may have some code</p>
<p>Or he may not :slightly_smiling_face:</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:10 PM</em></p>
<p>I guess we can come back to that when some written code from my side actually works :slightly_smiling_face:</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:11 PM</em></p>
<p>Well, it means that looking at failsafe fallback is a better bet</p>
<p>Which leans into your preference</p>
<p>So it’s more a datapoint than anything else</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:12 PM</em></p>
<p>sounds good</p>
<p>ok, should we move to the next topic, so we can hopefully finish on time</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:12 PM</em></p>
<p>SGTM</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:12 PM</em></p>
<p>next topic is, what&rsquo;s next &amp; when do we plan the next release</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:12 PM</em></p>
<p>Next release? I’d like a banner feature in. WebSockets and CDP across the Grid would be it, for me</p>
<p><em>5:13</em></p>
<p>Or we can just ship what we have</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:13 PM</em></p>
<p>that would be amazing</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:13 PM</em></p>
<p>It’s a SMOP</p>
<p>Simple Matter of Programming</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:13 PM</em></p>
<p>we have 267 commits after the alpha 5 release, sounds like there could be something we can release?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:13 PM</em></p>
<p>So I think the choice we have to make is “timed releases” or “feature releases”</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:14 PM</em></p>
<p>I thought SMOP might be &ldquo;Simple Matter of Pfantasy&rdquo;</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:14 PM</em></p>
<p><code>git log selenium-4.0.0-alpha-5..HEAD --oneline java</code></p>
<p><em>5:15</em></p>
<p>HA! 098eb99991</p>
<p><em>5:15</em></p>
<p>We landed support for configs via TOML….</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:16 PM</em></p>
<p>true, what if we try to have the retries thing, docs for toml, and maybe have a release before the next status meeting?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:16 PM</em></p>
<p>Looks like lots of little fixes</p>
<p>DOCS?</p>
<p>:wink:</p>
<p>I can write an info section for configuration</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:17 PM</em></p>
<p>that is what I was thinking</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:17 PM</em></p>
<p>kk</p>
<p>File an issue and assign it to me</p>
<p>(At some point, I need to do my day job)</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:17 PM</em></p>
<p>before the beta some of us need to make those docs a bit nicer for Se4</p>
<p><em>5:18</em></p>
<p>I will do that then</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:18 PM</em></p>
<p>Thank you</p>
<p>Shall we mark some issues as “4.0a6”?</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:19 PM</em></p>
<p>Maybe it is too much, not sure</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:19 PM</em></p>
<p>my offer still stands to help with issue hygiene, I just need permissions</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:19 PM</em></p>
<p>Or, perhaps, let’s work on our features, and next meeting ship 4.0a6 regardless of where we are</p>
<p>@mmerrell I’ll fix that up for you now</p>
<p>And @harsha509 too</p>
<p><em>Sri Harsha  5:20 PM</em>
Js bindings is already at alpha7. We can try to implement relative locators(which is pending in JS bindings) and release in next meeting.</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:21 PM</em></p>
<p>That’d be great</p>
<p>Thank you</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:21 PM</em></p>
<p>issue for TOML <a href="https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/8232">https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/8232</a></p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:22 PM</em></p>
<p>Thank you</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:22 PM</em></p>
<p>ok, two topics left</p>
<p>first is, SeleniumConf status (for India and Chicago), and its website</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:23 PM</em></p>
<p>I&rsquo;ll see if I can get a website update from Bill McGee now that it&rsquo;s a bit later on the west coast</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:23 PM</em></p>
<p>so India will happen (:crossed_fingers: ) in September, and Chicago in November, does anyone know any news related to that?</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:24 PM</em></p>
<p>@mmerrell you should have an invitation from GH to join the SeleniumHQ org. Am slightly surprised you’re not a member already :slightly_smiling_face:</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:26 PM</em></p>
<p>the conference status is currently:</p>
<ul>
<li>We&rsquo;re waiting until around May 15th to make a decision, but</li>
<li>While we believe the conference could happen in November, it&rsquo;s Bill McGee&rsquo;s observation that people right now just don&rsquo;t seem to be interested in buying tickets, submitting papers, or writing checks to sponsor in-person conferences right now</li>
<li>Given that we&rsquo;re having trouble motivating people to take the actions they need to take now (the previous point), it&rsquo;s hard to imagine how we can feel confident in a November conference in the near future</li>
<li>What I&rsquo;m saying is that, things in the community need to happen in May in order to hold a conference in November, and I don&rsquo;t have even the barest hint that those things will happen</li>
</ul>
<p>so, at this point we believe we will be able to recover most/all funds from the Holiday Inn, based on Sauce&rsquo;s experience with the Fairmont in Austin, and TestBash&rsquo;s experience in Detroit</p>
<p><em>5:27</em></p>
<p>but we&rsquo;re going to wait a few more weeks, a) because we can, and b) in case there&rsquo;s some kind of earth-shattering news that comes out that changes the picture</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:27 PM</em></p>
<p>The UK has been told that social distancing will remain necessary until next year</p>
<p><em>Alexei Barantsev  5:28 PM</em></p>
<p>@simonstewart I don&rsquo;t have any new code for http client yet, just an item on my todo list</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:28 PM</em></p>
<p>as you might have seen, our leadership much more optimistic :face_palm:</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:28 PM</em></p>
<p>@barancev ok. There’s no rush</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:29 PM</em></p>
<p>that&rsquo;s a great update @mmerrell, thanks</p>
<p>something else I wanted to ask is, if we could have at some point the SeleniumConf website code and assets also under the SeleniumHQ GitHub org</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:29 PM</em></p>
<p>Totes up for that</p>
<p>5:30
<em>I’ve another meeting to go to</em></p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:30 PM</em></p>
<p>me too. that&rsquo;s where things get sensitive</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:30 PM</em></p>
<p>Toodle pip</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:30 PM</em></p>
<p>but I think we need to head in that direction</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:30 PM</em></p>
<p>and as part of this, add the general conference guidelines to the governance doc</p>
<p><em>Marcus Merrell  5:30 PM</em></p>
<p>yep, that&rsquo;s on my plate</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:30 PM</em></p>
<p>that&rsquo;s fine, we can stop here as we have no more time</p>
<p><em>5:31</em></p>
<p>but we can keep the topic in our head for informal discussions</p>
<p><em>Simon Stewart  5:31 PM</em></p>
<p>You can carry on without me. I’m fine with that :slightly_smiling_face:</p>
<p><em>Diego Molina  5:31 PM</em></p>
<p>and have a status of it in the next meeting</p>
<p><em>5:32</em></p>
<p>to respect people&rsquo;s time, we will end the meeting here, I will upload the minutes to selenium.dev, and prepare an agenda for the next one</p>
<p><em>5:32</em></p>
<p>thank you everyone!</p>

            

<p><b>Tags</b></p>
<divs>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/slack/">slack</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/meeting/">meeting</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/tlc/">tlc</a></divs>


            

<p><b>Categories</b></p>
<div>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/categories/general/">general</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/categories/governance/">governance</a></div>


            <div class="share-container">
                <h3>Share this: </h3>

                <a href="mailto:?&subject=Selenium Blog - Public%20Project%20Meeting%20-%20April%2023%2c%202020&body=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fpublic-project-meeting-20200423%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/mail.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://twitter.com/home?status=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fpublic-project-meeting-20200423%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/twitter.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://selenium.dev"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/facebook.png"/></a>
            </div>
        </div>
        
        
        
        <div class="container dark-background">
            April 19, 2020 by <a href="https://twitter.com/diegofmolina">diemol</a>
            <a href="https://selenium.dev/blog/2020/public-project-meeting-20200409/"><h2>Public Project Meeting - April 9, 2020</h2></a>
            <p>As an initiative to bring more transparency to the Selenium project, we are now holding bi-weekly public project
meetings. These are written meetings which are held on the <code>#selenium-tlc</code> channel on <a href="https://seleniumhq.slack.com/join/shared_invite/enQtODAwOTUzOTM5OTEwLTZjZjgzN2ExOTBmZGE0NjkwYzA2Nzc0MjczMGYwYjdiNGQ5YjI0ZjdjYjFhMjVlMjFkZWJmNDYyMmU1OTYyM2Y">Selenium Slack</a>.</p>
<p>Here is the timeline of the meeting held on April 9, 2020 (times are on CET).</p>
<p>The next meeting will be on April 23, 2020, 4:30 PM CET.</p>
<hr>
<p>Simon Stewart  4:31 PM
@adamgoucher there needs to be a calendar invite for these things</p>
<p>adamgoucher  4:32 PM
well, originally the idea was that people could manage their own calendars but if you send me which email you want it attached to i can add you to the one ive been putting people on who wanted an invite</p>
<p>4:35 anyhow; here’s the rough approximation of an agenda. we’ll see how it goes;</p>
<ul>
<li>anything governance-y that needs to be discussed in public (not limited to, but including public announcement of people getting the commit bit, etc.)</li>
<li>status of prs</li>
<li>status of issues</li>
<li>status of se project related events (india, chicago are the big ones)</li>
<li>next release status and/or timeline</li>
<li>go around the metaphorical table on how people are doing against things they signed up for</li>
<li>anything that needs to get sussed out in public (from reading the channel, the main thing that came up is the js discussion)</li>
<li>open the floor for other discussions either instigated by ’project people</li>
</ul>
<p>4:38
anything governance-y that needs to be discussed in public (not limited to, but including public announcement of people getting the commit bit, etc.)</p>
<p>Diego Molina  4:38 PM
if there is time, let&rsquo;s add the recent topic of adding go bindings</p>
<p>adamgoucher  4:38 PM
has there been an sfc call recently? (i cant remember when they are)</p>
<p>Diego Molina  4:40 PM
governance related, I&rsquo;d say:
we need to define where we put these meetings minutes, how we announce them widely (do we need?), and that we still need a code of conduct</p>
<p>adamgoucher  4:41 PM
ok. @diemol pester my monday morning if i haven&rsquo;t figured out how to get them onto the blog by then</p>
<p>Diego Molina  4:41 PM
So, meetings minutes&hellip; we can put them in the same format as a blog entry, and we can tag/label them so they are publicly accessible
I can do that, I would just need the contents of the previous meetings, and also add small instructions on how to add new ones</p>
<p>adamgoucher  4:43 PM
i think we just start with this one. i didnt take the most excellent notes the last couple and they might have expired out the channel (havent scrolled up to check)</p>
<p>Diego Molina  4:43 PM
ok, so I will start doing that with this onee</p>
<p>adamgoucher  4:44 PM
who is the point person for the code of conduct</p>
<p>Diego Molina  4:44 PM
@AutomatedTester said something about being working on it?
4:44
but we currently have a draft, why don&rsquo;t we use that draft and iterate on it?</p>
<p>adamgoucher  4:45 PM
makes sense. as we did with the other doc</p>
<p>4:46
ok. next thing on the list is status of prs. which @AutomatedTester has been culling like a mad man over the last week and we’re down the 62</p>
<p>4:47
followed closely by status of issues and there is now 402 which i think he is also attacking (but i dont have a number from 2 weeks ago)</p>
<p>Diego Molina  4:48 PM
perhaps we should set up a project health status dashboard
I saw a couple of OSS projects that could do that</p>
<p>adamgoucher  4:49 PM
could be interesting. of course we could also then get into wild semantic discussions around ‘what’ healthy is.  :smile:</p>
<p>4:50
next; status of se project related events (india, chicago are the big ones)</p>
<p>4:51
i saw that seconf india has been moved to september. how is chicago looking?</p>
<p>Diego Molina  4:51 PM
I think no one is around who could reply that question</p>
<p>David Burns  4:52 PM
I also think it&rsquo;s too early to comment. Chicago is in lockdown at the moment for the foreseeable</p>
<p>4:52
we also need to be see how many venues are still around when we come out of our homes</p>
<p>Isaul Vargas  4:53 PM
As for big cities in the US, only by End of May can we know if restrictions will be lifted due to testing and lowering the curve.</p>
<p>adamgoucher  4:53 PM
(it has more of a recurring agenda item more than me seeing someone who can answer)</p>
<p>4:54
and restrictions will be lifted in june and clamped back down in july. as is the way in a pandemic. (and really, will be until we get a vaccine)</p>
<p>4:55
next item; next release status and/or timeline. @simonstewart?</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  4:55 PM
India has been moved to later in the year</p>
<p>4:56
We’re running the 4.0 release in the open: <a href="https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/projects/2">https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/projects/2</a></p>
<p>4:56
The config stuff won’t be too horrible. I’m quite liking the fact that TOML opens up some options</p>
<p>adamgoucher  4:56 PM
yup. so is your plan still ‘push the button on stage to do the release and retire for your daily beverage’ or are we aiming for a same-ish part of the calender</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  4:56 PM
When we ship, I stand down</p>
<p>4:57
I’d still like to get the betas out soon</p>
<p>4:57
But there are some big pieces missing before we can get to that point</p>
<p>4:58
The big one being the CDP stuff across Grid, which I’ve many of the moving parts for in various branches on my machine</p>
<p>Diego Molina  4:58 PM
when I look at the things on the &ldquo;to do&rdquo; column, maybe 80% is Grid, right?</p>
<p>5:00
if so, it is something that calms me down because at least (from my side), I am having slowly more time to work on the code</p>
<p>5:00
but there are a couple of things on that list which concern me: IDE to the monorepo (and build it with bazel) + implement CDP and relative locators in JS</p>
<p>David Burns  5:01 PM
I am doing the IDE to mono repo now</p>
<p>5:01
relative locators in JS should be easy, I can do it or talk @harsha509 through it</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:02 PM
but in the IDE, what is our approach in terms of browser extension vs. electron</p>
<p>5:02
right now we could only do the browser extension, right?</p>
<p>David Burns  5:02 PM
that is separate from the mono repo work</p>
<p>5:03
these are questions for @tourdedave and @corevo</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:03 PM
Right now, there’s just the browser extension, but @tourdedave and @corevo did start work on the electron port</p>
<p>5:03
I’m not sure what kind of progress they’re making, if any</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:04 PM
ok, so it seems we will only focus on the browser extension for now</p>
<p>adamgoucher  5:07 PM
ok, so to summarize;
all the known to-dos are in the github project
india has been shifted, but dont want to just move the target to september
aiming for betas to start soon, grid cdp is really the last big hurdle until those can start</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:08 PM
and the JS stuff, right?</p>
<p>5:08
(CDP + relative locators)</p>
<p>adamgoucher  5:09 PM
i think we can skip the next thing which is ‘how are people progressing on the stuff they signed up for’ with a ‘see the github project’</p>
<p>5:11
because the next thing on the list i prepared was <code>- anything that needs to get sussed out in public</code> which, for today, means ‘what to do about javascript’. not sure that anything got resolved the other day but i think the core of it is ‘webdriver.js is the official binding but not under the auspices of the project’ or something?</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:11 PM
To reiterate feedback from other people, and my own reflections:</p>
<p>5:12
There is a general feeling that the selenium project should own the core of its own bindings
We’ve gone from having basically no-one interested in JS to having Sri on board (@harsha509)
We’ve not nailed down the overall strategy yet</p>
<p>5:14
Which kind of suggests not using webdriver.io’s webdriver module, but continuing to work with our own stuff</p>
<p>5:14
Unless that module moves under the aegis of the project</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:15 PM
oh, actually I was talking to @christian-bromann about it, and he manifested again his interest to help move the JS bindings to use the webdriver package, and leave things ready for someone who wants to maintain the bindings</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:15 PM
And if the code for the webdriver package was in our repo, I think that’s probably what we’d do</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:16 PM
I am not a 100% sure that he is ok with moving the code from that package to our repo
but in the worst case, would a copy/fork of the code work?</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:17 PM
That seems like a bad idea</p>
<p>Christian Bromann  5:17 PM
What is the problem of not having the webdriver binding in the Selenium repo?</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:18 PM
The feedback I’ve had from several people has been that they’re deeply uncomfortable with it, and won’t approve of it</p>
<p>5:18
It’s not just a technical thing</p>
<p>5:18
There are the social aspects to consider too</p>
<p>Christian Bromann  5:19 PM
I understand.</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:20 PM
well, the idea of the committees is to reach consensus in these cases, and it looks like we would never reach it for this situation</p>
<p>Christian Bromann  5:20 PM
Well the idea of generating raw bindings based of some json files is pretty easy to reimplement and I am happy to support how it can be done.</p>
<p>5:22
copying over the code form WebdriverIO to Selenium is rather difficult as it depends on some other wdio utilities (logging and utility functions)</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:22 PM
I do wonder how far adrift the JS bindings are</p>
<p>5:23
The obvious missing 4.0 features are relative locators and the CDP integration</p>
<p>5:23
The CDP integration isn’t nailed down properly anywhere. We’ve got access to the raw protocol, but we’ve yet to build the abstractions people would actually write against</p>
<p>Christian Bromann  5:23 PM
Given the situation I am would be also happy to invite the Selenium JS contributor to the WebdriverIO org to ensure code access and ability to merge/review code changes.</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:24 PM
Thank you</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:25 PM
well, then it seems JS bindings stay as they are
hopefully we all find a way to make them fit for the 4.0 release</p>
<p>5:25
should we talk about the go bindings?</p>
<p>adamgoucher  5:26 PM
thats the only other thing on my list</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:26 PM
We can talk about Go bindings</p>
<p>5:27
Miki offered to donate <a href="https://github.com/tebeka/selenium">https://github.com/tebeka/selenium</a> to the project a while ago</p>
<p>5:27
I got busy and had health issues, so dropped things on the floor</p>
<p>5:27
Should we pick that back up again?</p>
<p>adamgoucher  5:28 PM
is he also intending to maintain it (dunno the status of them) or is it a ‘i did a thing and dont need it anymore so someone can pick it up if they want’</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:28 PM
I dunno</p>
<p>5:28
That would be part of the conversation</p>
<p>David Burns  5:29 PM
if it&rsquo;s the latter then I am not sure we would want them. It&rsquo;s amazingly nice but the maintenance burden, potentially, doesnt feel worth it</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:30 PM
Indeed</p>
<p>5:30
But it would be nice to have some “official” Go bindings.</p>
<p>adamgoucher  5:30 PM
i know nothing about go, but i feel like the bar for any binding to be included in the main project;
is it maintained?
is it idomatically correct for the language?
is there not a competing, more obvious one to incorporate?</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:30 PM
Turns out that people like them</p>
<p>5:30
s/them/the language/</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:30 PM
seems it is worthy to give the conversation a go</p>
<p>5:30
who would like to drive that conversation with Miki?</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:31 PM
It’s pretty dormant right now, but is that due to being complete?
My understanding is “yes”
Nothing that I’m aware of</p>
<p>5:31
puts finger on nose</p>
<p>adamgoucher  5:31 PM
sounds like ‘you are a go’ for the conversation about go. as it were</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:31 PM
Not me</p>
<p>5:31
Yeah, I think it’s a conversation that’s well worth having</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:32 PM
I can see from a quick look that the go bindings have vendor stuff in it, for example it has the ability to use Sauce Labs out of the box</p>
<p>5:33
even if I work for Sauce, we need to see all those things in case we want to merge them</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:34 PM
Aye</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:36 PM
I know how the Grid works (in general), but I still have black spots in my head when talking about bindings
we need someone who knows how bindings should work and do a check on the go bindings</p>
<p>adamgoucher  5:37 PM
sounds like ‘we think having the go bindings in the main project is cool, but currently the people in the channel right now dont have enough interest (or knowledge) to drive the conversation’</p>
<p>5:38
likely also have to talk to sfc about rights transfer and such. though the existing licensing could cover it</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:39 PM
maybe we bring the topic back in 2 weeks and see how people feel?</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:40 PM
SGTM</p>
<p>adamgoucher  5:41 PM
ok. i didnt have anything else? did anyone else?</p>
<p>Simon Stewart  5:42 PM
I’ve got other meetings to attend, so nowt from me</p>
<p>adamgoucher  5:43 PM
taking silence from the rest as a no. thanks everyone!</p>
<p>Diego Molina  5:43 PM
Thank you all!</p>

            

<p><b>Tags</b></p>
<divs>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/slack/">slack</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/meeting/">meeting</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/tags/tlc/">tlc</a></divs>


            

<p><b>Categories</b></p>
<div>
    
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/categories/general/">general</a>
    <a href="https://selenium.dev/categories/governance/">governance</a></div>


            <div class="share-container">
                <h3>Share this: </h3>

                <a href="mailto:?&subject=Selenium Blog - Public%20Project%20Meeting%20-%20April%209%2c%202020&body=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fpublic-project-meeting-20200409%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/mail.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://twitter.com/home?status=https%3a%2f%2fselenium.dev%2fblog%2f2020%2fpublic-project-meeting-20200409%2f"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/twitter.png"/></a>
                <a href="https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://selenium.dev"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/facebook.png"/></a>
            </div>
        </div>
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        

        </div>
    </div>
</div>

<!DOCTYPE html>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/main.css"/>

<div class="selenium-backers separator">
    <h2>Selenium Level Sponsors</h2>
    <div class="backers">
        
        <div class="backer-logo">
            <a href="http://www.browserstack.com/automate/?utm_campaign=open-source-sponsor&utm_source=seleniumorg&utm_medium=referral">
                <img class="backer-logo" src="/images/sponsors/browserstack.png"/>
            </a>
        </div>
        
        <div class="backer-logo">
            <a href="http://saucelabs.com">
                <img class="backer-logo" src="/images/sponsors/saucelabs.png"/>
            </a>
        </div>
        
        <div class="backer-logo">
            <a href="http://bit.ly/36uZ7ad">
                <img class="backer-logo" src="/images/sponsors/experitest.png"/>
            </a>
        </div>
        
        <div class="backer-logo">
            <a href="https://newrelic.com/synthetics?utm_campaign=brn+awr+seleniumorg+FY17Q1&utm_medium=REF&utm_source=selenium.dev&utm_content=synthetics-logo+&mpc=REF-selenium.dev-EN-generic--synthetics-logo">
                <img class="backer-logo" src="/images/sponsors/synthetics.png"/>
            </a>
        </div>
        
        <div class="backer-logo">
            <a href="https://crossbrowsertesting.com/selenium-testing?utm_source=seleniumhq&utm_campaign=sshp">
                <img class="backer-logo" src="/images/sponsors/CBT.png"/>
            </a>
        </div>
        
        <div class="backer-logo">
            <a href="https://applitools.com/">
                <img class="backer-logo" src="/images/sponsors/applitools.png"/>
            </a>
        </div>
        
        <div class="backer-logo">
            <a href="https://www.ranorex.com/selocity/browser-extension.html">
                <img class="backer-logo" src="/images/sponsors/selocity_banner_seleniumhq.png"/>
            </a>
        </div>
        
        <div class="backer-logo">
            <a href="https://software.microfocus.com/en-us/software/leanft">
                <img class="backer-logo" src="/images/sponsors/microfocus_logo.png"/>
            </a>
        </div>
        
        <div class="backer-logo">
            <a href="http://www.subject-7.com/">
                <img class="backer-logo" src="/images/sponsors/subject7_logo.png"/>
            </a>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>


<!DOCTYPE html>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/main.css"/>

<html>
<head>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1">
</head>

<div class="support-selenium-container">
    <div class="support-selenium">
        <h2>Support the Selenium Project</h2>
        <p>Want to support the Selenium project? Learn more or view the full list of sponsors.</p>
        <div class="button-container">
            <a href="/sponsors">
                <div class="button"><b>LEARN MORE</b></div>
            </a>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

<body>


</body>

<!DOCTYPE html>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/footer.css"/>

<html>
<head>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1">
</head>

<footer>
    <div onClick="toggleSitemap()" class="toggle-container">
        Sitemap
        <div id="sitemapArrow" class="arrow-down"></div>
    </div>

    <div id="navLinks" class="nav-links">
        <div class="footer-section">
            <a href="/about"><h3>About</h3></a>
            <a href="/events">Events</a>
            <a href="/blog">News</a>
            <a href="/history">History</a>
            <a href="/sponsor">Contribute</a>
            <a href="/sponsors">Sponsors</a>
            <a href="/getinvolved">Get Involved</a>
            <a href="/ecosystem">Ecosystem</a>
            <a href="https://selenium.dev/documentation/en/front_matter/copyright_and_attributions/#license">License</a>
        </div>
        <div class="footer-section">
            <a href="/downloads"><h3>Downloads</h3></a>
            <a href="/maven">Maven</a>
            <a href="https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium">Source Code</a>
        </div>
        <div class="footer-section">
            <a href="/projects"><h3>Projects</h3></a>
            <a href="/projects/#selenium-webdriver">Selenium WebDriver</a>
            <a href="/projects/#selenium-grid">Selenium Grid</a>
            <a href="/projects/#selenium-ide">Selenium IDE</a>
        </div>
        <div class="footer-section">
            <a href="/support"><h3>Support</h3></a>
            <a href="/blog">Blog</a>
            <a href="/documentation">Documentation</a>
            <a href="/project">Governance</a>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="social">
        Follow us on twitter to keep up-to-date with all Selenium development and community activity!
        <div class="social-icons">
            <a href="mailto:selenium@sfconservancy.org"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/mail.png"/></a>
            <a href="https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/github.png"/></a>
            <a href="https://twitter.com/SeleniumHQ"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/twitter.png"/></a>
            <a href="https://www.facebook.com/Selenium2.WebDriver"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/facebook.png"/></a>
            <a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCbDlgX_613xNMrDqCe3QNEw"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/youtube.png"/></a>
            <a href="/blog/index.xml"><img class="social-icon" src="/images/rss.png"/></a>
        </div>
    </div>
</footer>
<div class="sfc">
    <p style="text-align:center;">All rights reserved, Software Freedom Conservancy</p>
</div>
<body>

<script>
function toggleSitemap () {
  const sitemapArrow = document.getElementById("sitemapArrow");
  const navLinks = document.getElementById("navLinks");

  if(sitemapArrow.className === 'arrow-down') {
    sitemapArrow.className = 'arrow-up'
  } else {
    sitemapArrow.className = 'arrow-down'
  }

  if(navLinks.className === 'nav-links') {
    navLinks.className = 'nav-links show'
  } else {
    navLinks.className = 'nav-links'
  }
}
</script>

